# Research-paper-Recommendation-System-using-Topic-Modelling
Recommendation system using topic modelling NIPS DATASET------->A recommendation system is a technique that predicts a user's preferences or interests and suggests relevant items such as articles, products, movies, music, aiming to enhance user experience. It uses algorithms to analyze user data and generate personalized recommendations. Selecting the appropriate research paper for a specific research topic can be a challenging and time-consuming task due to a greater number of papers published annually. This project work focuses on the development of a recommendation system customized for conference research papers using topic modelling. It is a technique used in natural language processing and machine learning to discover topics within a collection of research papers. Collaborative filtering is a recommendation technique that predicts preferences based on similarities between users or items. The goal is to help researchers to discover relevant research paper within their specific domains more easily. This project consists of five phases. The first phase is loading the dataset and exploratory data analysis, which involves importing the dataset and exploring it to understand its structure and characteristics. The second phase of the work is text preprocessing and vectorization to transform raw textual data into a format suitable for machine learning analysis. The third phase of work is the implementation of topic modelling using LDA, which uncovers latent topics within the text corpus. The fourth phase of work is developing the recommendation system using the collaborative filtering technique to suggest relevant research papers. The final phase of the work is performance evaluation, which assesses the accuracy of the recommendation system employing metrics such as accuracy, precision, recall, and F1 score. This system aims to provide personalized recommendations based on researchers interests and preferences. 
This project is implemented using python programming language.

